JENKINS.md, before:

# CI Jenkins pipeline

## Sections

-   <a href="#overview">Overview</a>
-   <a href="#how-it-works">How it works</a>
-   <a href="#when-it-works">When it works</a>
-   <a href="#job-types">Job types</a>
-   <a href="#node-types">Node types</a>
-   <a href="#node-config-management">Node config management</a>
-   <a href="#jenkinsfile-structure">Jenkinsfile structure</a>
-   <a href="#how-to-add-parallel-job">How to add parallel job</a>
-   <a href="#links">Links</a>

## Overview

`jenkinsfile` contains definition of CI pipeline running on QA-jenkins

Here is link to Druid project on jenkins server: https://ci.cnc.imply.io/job/imply-druid/job/druid/

## How it works

The pipeline definition consists of consequent stages: `Maven install` and `Checks`

`Maven install` stage performs building artifacts and uploading them to docker registry as docker images

Two cache images are used:

* druid-m2-cache - contains .m2/repository files
* druid-build-cache - contains local artifacts built from `mvn install` command

`Check` stage contains definition of all jobs running in parallel

Almost every job does the following:

* pulls druid-m2-cache files to temporary workspace
* pulls druid-build-cache files to workspace
* build/launch docker container (based on maven:3.6.3-jdk-8/maven:3.6.3-jdk-11) mounting druid-m2-cache download to `~/.m2`
* run test commands inside created container

## When it works

Build gets triggered in the following cases:

* automatically for every commit of opened PR - jenkins _locally_ merge branch of PR into target and then proceed with merging commit
* automatically for every commit in release branches with the naming format: `d.dd.d-iap` / `d.d.d-iap` (for example 0.19.0-iap or 0.1.0-iap)
* on demand: in every branch

In all these cases jenkinsfile should be exists.


## Job types

All jobs can be divided into five types:

* maven check
* packaging check
* module tests
* integration tests
* other jobs


Each type excluding the last one is defined by its own clojure.

For example maven check is defined by the following closure:

```groovy
def mavenCheck = { stageName, body ->
    stage(stageName) {
        lightweightNode { // can be launched among other job in the same node
            checkout scm  // checkout from git repo into workspace
            downloadBuildCache() // pull local artifacts from Maven install stage
            withM2Cache { cacheDir -> // pull .m2 cache  and proceed with given path of downloaded directory
                docker.image('maven:3.6.3-jdk-8').inside(
                    "--memory=8g --memory-reservation=4g -e HOME=/tmp -e _JAVA_OPTIONS=-Duser.home=/tmp -v ${cacheDir}/.m2:/tmp/.m2") { // point m2 cache as ~/.m2
                    withArtifactorySettings { // mount settings.xml with access to our artifactory server as ~/.m2/settings.xml
                        body() // run given code
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

So it can be used for all maven check jobs:

```groovy
stage("Checks") {
    parallel "animal sniffer checks": {
        mavenCheck("animal sniffer checks") {
            sh script: "${MVN} animal-sniffer:check --fail-at-end", label: "animal sniffer"
        }
    },
    "checkstyle": {
        mavenCheck("checkstyle") {
            sh script: "${MVN} checkstyle:checkstyle --fail-at-end",label: "checkstyle"
        }
    },
    "enforcer checks": {
        mavenCheck("enforcer checks") {
            sh script: "${MVN} enforcer:enforce --fail-at-end", label: "enforcer checks"
        }
    }
    // and other jobs
}
```

## Node types

There two types of nodes mentioned in this jenkinsfile: `lightweightNode` and `heavyNode`

The essential difference between them is number of executor per node: `lightweightNode` is one of 3 executors which means there can be 3 such jobs running in the single instance - so that type is used for simple jobs that don't use docker runtime (e.g maven check, license check, etc); `heavyNode` is single executor on an instance - so no more than one job can be running at any moment - this is usefull for expensive jobs and/or jobs that directly uses docker runtime (integration tests)

`lightweightNode` represents a one of multiple executors on node under label `jenkinsOnDemandMultiExec`, node config are stored as helm chart values in `qa-infrastructure` repository: https://github.com/implydata/qa-infrastructure/blob/8e1cbe772c664070fc94640f07b6393141b8c1b8/modules/cicd/jenkins/values.yml#L1438-L1471

`heavyNode` represents single executor on node under label `jenkinsOnDemand`, node config: https://github.com/implydata/qa-infrastructure/blob/8e1cbe772c664070fc94640f07b6393141b8c1b8/modules/cicd/jenkins/values.yml#L1363-L1397

These configs can be changed [using terraform](#node-config-management)

In the jenkinsfile there are closures referenced for both types of nodes:

```groovy
def heavyNode = { body ->
    node('jenkinsOnDemand') {
        body()
    }
}

def lightweightNode = { body ->
    node('jenkinsOnDemandMultiExec') {
        body()
    }
}
```

So they can used in `Checks` stage:

```groovy
stage('Checks') {
	parallel "job1": {
		stage('Simple check') {
			lightweightNode {
				docker.image('maven:3.6.3-jdk-8').inside {'./build'}
			}
		}
	},
	"job2": {
		stage('Integration test') {
			heavyNode {
				def i = docker.build()
				i.inside{'./build'}
			}
		}
	}
// ...
}
```


## Node config management

Jenkins master is running on k8s cluster and its config is defined by helm chart. The helm chart is managed by terraform

For example, to change number of executors for node with `jenkinsOnDemandMultiExec` label:

1. Clone `qa-infrastructure` repo
1. Change helm chart value at this place: https://github.com/implydata/qa-infrastructure/blob/8e1cbe772c664070fc94640f07b6393141b8c1b8/modules/cicd/jenkins/values.yml#L1462
1. Apply changes by terraform command:

```
cd imply
terraform init
terraform apply -target module.jenkins.helm_release.jenkins
```


## Jenkinsfile structure


`jenkinsfile` can be divided into two parts

* definitions of variables/closures
* stages


```groovy
// definitions:

def VARIABLE1 = "..."
def VARIABLE2 = "..."
// ...
def CLOSURE1 = { /* place pipeline code */}
def CLOSURE2 = { arg, body -> /* other closure can be passed as well as regular arguments */}

// pipeline code

stage('Maven install') {
	\\ performs mvn clean install
}

stage('Checks') {
	parallel "job1": {
		// scripted pipeline code can be placed directly, for example:
		// node('jenkinsOnDemand') {
		//	 docker.image('maven:3.6.3-jdk-8').inside {
		//		sh script: "./build"
		//   }
		// }
	},
	"job2": {
		// .. as well as pre-defined closure:
		// CLOSURE2("arg")
	},
	// ...
	"jobN": {

	}
}



```


The first part is variables/closures are defined - so they can be referenced in second part following DRY principle (don't repeat yourself)

The second part consists, as mentioned earlier, consists of two stages: `Maven install` and `Checks`



## How to add parallel job


Job can added as parrallel stage in `Check` global stage. It can be added directly (see `license checks` for example) or using closure.


## Links

Jenkinsfile in general: https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/jenkinsfile/

Pipeline syntax: https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/

Using Docker with Pipeline: https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/docker/

Commit message:

Add a milestone per phase to kill off old jobs no longer needed
Update readme

JENKINS.md, after:

# CI Jenkins pipeline

## Sections

-   <a href="#overview">Overview</a>
-   <a href="#how-it-works">How it works</a>
-   <a href="#when-it-works">When it works</a>
-   <a href="#job-types">Job types</a>
-   <a href="#node-types">Node types</a>
-   <a href="#node-config-management">Node config management</a>
-   <a href="#jenkinsfile-structure">Jenkinsfile structure</a>
-   <a href="#how-to-add-parallel-job">How to add parallel job</a>
-   <a href="#links">Links</a>

## Overview

`jenkinsfile` contains definition of CI pipeline running on QA-jenkins

Here is link to Druid project on jenkins server: https://ci.cnc.imply.io/job/imply-druid/job/druid/

## How it works

Before beginning a build, the function `cancelPreviousBuilds()` is called to kill off any currently running builds for this same job.
Note that each branch of the repository gets its own job, so builds for other branches won't be affected.

The pipeline definition consists of consequent stages: `Maven install` and `Checks`

`Maven install` stage performs building artifacts and uploading them to docker registry as docker images

Two cache images are used:

* druid-m2-cache - contains .m2/repository files
* druid-build-cache - contains local artifacts built from `mvn install` command

`Check` stage contains definition of all jobs running in parallel

Almost every job does the following:

* pulls druid-m2-cache files to temporary workspace
* pulls druid-build-cache files to workspace
* build/launch docker container (based on maven:3.6.3-jdk-8/maven:3.6.3-jdk-11) mounting druid-m2-cache download to `~/.m2`
* run test commands inside created container

## When it works

Build gets triggered in the following cases:

* automatically for every commit of opened PR - jenkins _locally_ merge branch of PR into target and then proceed with merging commit
* automatically for every commit in release branches with the naming format: `d.dd.d-iap` / `d.d.d-iap` (for example 0.19.0-iap or 0.1.0-iap)
* on demand: in every branch

In all these cases jenkinsfile should be exists.


## Job types

All jobs can be divided into five types:

* maven check
* packaging check
* module tests
* integration tests
* other jobs


Each type excluding the last one is defined by its own clojure.

For example maven check is defined by the following closure:

```groovy
def mavenCheck = { stageName, body ->
    stage(stageName) {
        lightweightNode { // can be launched among other job in the same node
            checkout scm  // checkout from git repo into workspace
            downloadBuildCache() // pull local artifacts from Maven install stage
            withM2Cache { cacheDir -> // pull .m2 cache  and proceed with given path of downloaded directory
                docker.image('maven:3.6.3-jdk-8').inside(
                    "--memory=8g --memory-reservation=4g -e HOME=/tmp -e _JAVA_OPTIONS=-Duser.home=/tmp -v ${cacheDir}/.m2:/tmp/.m2") { // point m2 cache as ~/.m2
                    withArtifactorySettings { // mount settings.xml with access to our artifactory server as ~/.m2/settings.xml
                        body() // run given code
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

So it can be used for all maven check jobs:

```groovy
stage("Checks") {
    parallel "animal sniffer checks": {
        mavenCheck("animal sniffer checks") {
            sh script: "${MVN} animal-sniffer:check --fail-at-end", label: "animal sniffer"
        }
    },
    "checkstyle": {
        mavenCheck("checkstyle") {
            sh script: "${MVN} checkstyle:checkstyle --fail-at-end",label: "checkstyle"
        }
    },
    "enforcer checks": {
        mavenCheck("enforcer checks") {
            sh script: "${MVN} enforcer:enforce --fail-at-end", label: "enforcer checks"
        }
    }
    // and other jobs
}
```

## Node types

There two types of nodes mentioned in this jenkinsfile: `lightweightNode` and `heavyNode`

The essential difference between them is number of executor per node: `lightweightNode` is one of 3 executors which means there can be 3 such jobs running in the single instance - so that type is used for simple jobs that don't use docker runtime (e.g maven check, license check, etc); `heavyNode` is single executor on an instance - so no more than one job can be running at any moment - this is usefull for expensive jobs and/or jobs that directly uses docker runtime (integration tests)

`lightweightNode` represents a one of multiple executors on node under label `jenkinsOnDemandMultiExec`, node config are stored as helm chart values in `qa-infrastructure` repository: https://github.com/implydata/qa-infrastructure/blob/8e1cbe772c664070fc94640f07b6393141b8c1b8/modules/cicd/jenkins/values.yml#L1438-L1471

`heavyNode` represents single executor on node under label `jenkinsOnDemand`, node config: https://github.com/implydata/qa-infrastructure/blob/8e1cbe772c664070fc94640f07b6393141b8c1b8/modules/cicd/jenkins/values.yml#L1363-L1397

These configs can be changed [using terraform](#node-config-management)

In the jenkinsfile there are closures referenced for both types of nodes:

```groovy
def heavyNode = { body ->
    node('jenkinsOnDemand') {
        body()
    }
}

def lightweightNode = { body ->
    node('jenkinsOnDemandMultiExec') {
        body()
    }
}
```

So they can used in `Checks` stage:

```groovy
stage('Checks') {
	parallel "job1": {
		stage('Simple check') {
			lightweightNode {
				docker.image('maven:3.6.3-jdk-8').inside {'./build'}
			}
		}
	},
	"job2": {
		stage('Integration test') {
			heavyNode {
				def i = docker.build()
				i.inside{'./build'}
			}
		}
	}
// ...
}
```


## Node config management

Jenkins master is running on k8s cluster and its config is defined by helm chart. The helm chart is managed by terraform

For example, to change number of executors for node with `jenkinsOnDemandMultiExec` label:

1. Clone `qa-infrastructure` repo
1. Change helm chart value at this place: https://github.com/implydata/qa-infrastructure/blob/8e1cbe772c664070fc94640f07b6393141b8c1b8/modules/cicd/jenkins/values.yml#L1462
1. Apply changes by terraform command:

```
cd imply
terraform init
terraform apply -target module.jenkins.helm_release.jenkins
```


## Jenkinsfile structure


`jenkinsfile` can be divided into two parts

* definitions of variables/closures
* stages


```groovy
// definitions:

def VARIABLE1 = "..."
def VARIABLE2 = "..."
// ...
def CLOSURE1 = { /* place pipeline code */}
def CLOSURE2 = { arg, body -> /* other closure can be passed as well as regular arguments */}

// pipeline code

stage('Maven install') {
	\\ performs mvn clean install
}

stage('Checks') {
	parallel "job1": {
		// scripted pipeline code can be placed directly, for example:
		// node('jenkinsOnDemand') {
		//	 docker.image('maven:3.6.3-jdk-8').inside {
		//		sh script: "./build"
		//   }
		// }
	},
	"job2": {
		// .. as well as pre-defined closure:
		// CLOSURE2("arg")
	},
	// ...
	"jobN": {

	}
}



```


The first part is variables/closures are defined - so they can be referenced in second part following DRY principle (don't repeat yourself)

The second part consists, as mentioned earlier, consists of two stages: `Maven install` and `Checks`



## How to add parallel job


Job can added as parrallel stage in `Check` global stage. It can be added directly (see `license checks` for example) or using closure.


## Links

Jenkinsfile in general: https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/jenkinsfile/

Pipeline syntax: https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/

Using Docker with Pipeline: https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/docker/
