extensions-imply/imply-utility-belt/README.md, before:

<!--
  ~ Copyright (c) Imply Data, Inc. All rights reserved.
  ~
  ~ This software is the confidential and proprietary information
  ~  of Imply Data, Inc.
  -->

<img src="https://static.imply.io/img/bat-belt.jpg" />

## CloudWatch logs parser

Parses the CloudWatch log container format. Inside the log container will be a list of other messages, which can
be parsed with another parser.

The CloudWatch parser will add three bonus fields to your messages:

- owner
- logGroup
- logStream

See https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/CloudWatchLogsConcepts.html for details on the meanings
of these fields. If the underlying events already have fields with these names, they will be overwritten.

An example for VPC Flow Logs:

```json
"parser": {
  "type": "cloudwatch",
  "parseSpec": {
    "format": "tsv",
    "delimiter": " ",
    "timestampSpec": {
      "column": "start",
      "format": "posix"
    },
    "columns": [
      "version",
      "account-id",
      "interface-id",
      "srcaddr",
      "dstaddr",
      "srcport",
      "dstport",
      "protocol",
      "packets",
      "bytes",
      "start",
      "end",
      "action",
      "log-status",
      "owner",
      "logGroup",
      "logStream"
    ],
    "dimensionsSpec": {
      "dimensions": [
        { "name": "owner", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "logGroup", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "logStream", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "version", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "account-id", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "interface-id", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "srcaddr", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "dstaddr", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "srcport", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "dstport", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "protocol", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "action", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "log-status", "type": "string" }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## GeoIP

Performs IP to location lookups using a MaxMind City database provided by you, the user. For this extension to work,
specify this property in your common.runtime.properties:

```
imply.utility.belt.geoDatabase=/path/to/db.mmdb
```

This functions is available through either Druid expressions (useful for ingest-time transformSpecs) or Druid SQL:

|Function|Description|
|--------|-----------|
|ft_geoip(addr, type)|Look up the "type" attribute of "addr". Type can be one of the types listed below.|

Lookup types supported:

- `lat` - Latitude.
- `lon` - Longitude.
- `geohash9` - Geohash to 9 places of precision, like "wdqcbntdq".
- `city` - City name, like "Beijing".
- `metro` - Metro code, like "819".
- `region` - Name of the most specific subdivision, like "Östergötland County".
- `regionIso` - ISO-3166-2 subdivision code, up to 3 characters long, like "CA".
- `country` - Country name, like "India".
- `countryIso` - ISO-3166-1 country code, 2 characters long, like "DE".
- `continent` - Continent name, like "North America".

## User agent extraction

Extracts information from HTTP user agent strings using a bundled database.

This functions is available through either Druid expressions (useful for ingest-time transformSpecs) or Druid SQL:

|Function|Description|
|--------|-----------|
|ft_useragent(ua, type)|Extract up the "type" attribute of "ua". Type can be one of the types listed below.|

Lookup types supported:

- `browser` - Browser type, like "Chrome".
- `browser_version` - Browser version, like "70.0.3538.77".
- `agent_type` - User agent type, like "Browser".
- `agent_category` - User agent category, like "Personal computer".
- `os` - Operating system, like "OS X".
- `platform` - Platform, like "OS X".

## Currency conversion aggregator

### Usage

This extension provides a `currencySum` aggregator that applies a time-based currency conversion
table while performing a sum over an underlying column. For example, if you have a column `usd`
and provide a USD to EUR conversion table, the aggregator's behavior is equivalent to the pseudo-SQL
`SUM(RATE_FOR_DAY(__time) * usd)`.

Example usage in a query, converting USD to EUR for the month of July 2016:

```
{
  "queryType": "timeseries",
  "dataSource": "sample_datasource",
  "intervals": [ "2016-07-01/P1M" ]
  "granularity": "all",
  "aggregations": [
    {
      "type" : "currencySum",
      "name" : "eur",
      "fieldName" : "usd",
      "conversions": {
        "2016-07-01T00:00:00.000Z": 0.899531,
        "2016-07-02T00:00:00.000Z": 0.89699,
        "2016-07-03T00:00:00.000Z": 0.89699,
        "2016-07-04T00:00:00.000Z": 0.897827,
        "2016-07-05T00:00:00.000Z": 0.898707,
        "2016-07-06T00:00:00.000Z": 0.903489,
        "2016-07-07T00:00:00.000Z": 0.902389,
        "2016-07-08T00:00:00.000Z": 0.903849,
        "2016-07-09T00:00:00.000Z": 0.904593,
        "2016-07-10T00:00:00.000Z": 0.904593,
        "2016-07-11T00:00:00.000Z": 0.905133,
        "2016-07-12T00:00:00.000Z": 0.90247,
        "2016-07-13T00:00:00.000Z": 0.902739,
        "2016-07-14T00:00:00.000Z": 0.899944,
        "2016-07-15T00:00:00.000Z": 0.900341,
        "2016-07-16T00:00:00.000Z": 0.905772,
        "2016-07-17T00:00:00.000Z": 0.905772,
        "2016-07-18T00:00:00.000Z": 0.903979,
        "2016-07-19T00:00:00.000Z": 0.904945,
        "2016-07-20T00:00:00.000Z": 0.908306,
        "2016-07-21T00:00:00.000Z": 0.907408,
        "2016-07-22T00:00:00.000Z": 0.908232,
        "2016-07-23T00:00:00.000Z": 0.910631,
        "2016-07-24T00:00:00.000Z": 0.910631,
        "2016-07-25T00:00:00.000Z": 0.910896,
        "2016-07-26T00:00:00.000Z": 0.90943,
        "2016-07-27T00:00:00.000Z": 0.909124,
        "2016-07-28T00:00:00.000Z": 0.902454,
        "2016-07-29T00:00:00.000Z": 0.899434,
        "2016-07-30T00:00:00.000Z": 0.894486,
        "2016-07-31T00:00:00.000Z": 0.894486
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

The conversion table is applied with the following rules:

1. The table is expected to contain key/value pairs where the key is an ISO8601 timestamp,
   and the value is a currency conversion rate.
2. The `__time` column for the row (Druid's builtin timestamp column) is used for evaluating which
   conversion rate to use.
3. Rows with timestamps before the earliest provided conversion time will use the rate 1.0.
4. All other rows use the rate corresponding to the latest conversion table timestamp which is equal
   to or less than the row's timestamp. (i.e. the most recent conversion as of the timestamp in that row)


## IP Address Columns

IPv4 and IPv6 addresses can be ingested into specialized column type that stores IP address in their native 128-bit binary format.

```json
{
   "type": "ipAddress",
   "name": "someColumnName"
}
```

_WIP_

Commit message:

Add st_geohash function. (#813)
* Add st_geohash function.

* Add hamcrest test dependency.

extensions-imply/imply-utility-belt/README.md, after:

<!--
  ~ Copyright (c) Imply Data, Inc. All rights reserved.
  ~
  ~ This software is the confidential and proprietary information
  ~  of Imply Data, Inc.
  -->

<img src="https://static.imply.io/img/bat-belt.jpg" />

## CloudWatch logs parser

Parses the CloudWatch log container format. Inside the log container will be a list of other messages, which can
be parsed with another parser.

The CloudWatch parser will add three bonus fields to your messages:

- owner
- logGroup
- logStream

See https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/CloudWatchLogsConcepts.html for details on the meanings
of these fields. If the underlying events already have fields with these names, they will be overwritten.

An example for VPC Flow Logs:

```json
"parser": {
  "type": "cloudwatch",
  "parseSpec": {
    "format": "tsv",
    "delimiter": " ",
    "timestampSpec": {
      "column": "start",
      "format": "posix"
    },
    "columns": [
      "version",
      "account-id",
      "interface-id",
      "srcaddr",
      "dstaddr",
      "srcport",
      "dstport",
      "protocol",
      "packets",
      "bytes",
      "start",
      "end",
      "action",
      "log-status",
      "owner",
      "logGroup",
      "logStream"
    ],
    "dimensionsSpec": {
      "dimensions": [
        { "name": "owner", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "logGroup", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "logStream", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "version", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "account-id", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "interface-id", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "srcaddr", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "dstaddr", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "srcport", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "dstport", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "protocol", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "action", "type": "string" },
        { "name": "log-status", "type": "string" }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## GeoIP

Performs IP to location lookups using a MaxMind City database provided by you, the user. For this extension to work,
specify this property in your common.runtime.properties:

```
imply.utility.belt.geoDatabase=/path/to/db.mmdb
```

This functions is available through either Druid expressions (useful for ingest-time transformSpecs) or Druid SQL:

|Function|Description|
|--------|-----------|
|ft_geoip(addr, type)|Look up the "type" attribute of "addr". Type can be one of the types listed below.|

Lookup types supported:

- `lat` - Latitude.
- `lon` - Longitude.
- `geohash9` - Geohash to 9 places of precision, like "wdqcbntdq".
- `city` - City name, like "Beijing".
- `metro` - Metro code, like "819".
- `region` - Name of the most specific subdivision, like "Östergötland County".
- `regionIso` - ISO-3166-2 subdivision code, up to 3 characters long, like "CA".
- `country` - Country name, like "India".
- `countryIso` - ISO-3166-1 country code, 2 characters long, like "DE".
- `continent` - Continent name, like "North America".

## User agent extraction

Extracts information from HTTP user agent strings using a bundled database.

This functions is available through either Druid expressions (useful for ingest-time transformSpecs) or Druid SQL:

|Function|Description|
|--------|-----------|
|ft_useragent(ua, type)|Extract up the "type" attribute of "ua". Type can be one of the types listed below.|

Lookup types supported:

- `browser` - Browser type, like "Chrome".
- `browser_version` - Browser version, like "70.0.3538.77".
- `agent_type` - User agent type, like "Browser".
- `agent_category` - User agent category, like "Personal computer".
- `os` - Operating system, like "OS X".
- `platform` - Platform, like "OS X".

## Spatial functions

Operations on spatial data.

|Function|Description|
|--------|-----------|
|st_geohash(lon, lat, maxchars)|Create a [geohash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geohash) for the provided longitude and latitude, with length up to maxchars. The maxchars parameter must be a literal between 1 and 12 (inclusive).<br /><br />If longitude is outside of the range -180 (exclusive) to 180 (inclusive), or latitude is outside of the range -90 (exclusive) to 90 (inclusive), returns null. If any inputs are null, returns null.|

## Currency conversion aggregator

### Usage

This extension provides a `currencySum` aggregator that applies a time-based currency conversion
table while performing a sum over an underlying column. For example, if you have a column `usd`
and provide a USD to EUR conversion table, the aggregator's behavior is equivalent to the pseudo-SQL
`SUM(RATE_FOR_DAY(__time) * usd)`.

Example usage in a query, converting USD to EUR for the month of July 2016:

```
{
  "queryType": "timeseries",
  "dataSource": "sample_datasource",
  "intervals": [ "2016-07-01/P1M" ]
  "granularity": "all",
  "aggregations": [
    {
      "type" : "currencySum",
      "name" : "eur",
      "fieldName" : "usd",
      "conversions": {
        "2016-07-01T00:00:00.000Z": 0.899531,
        "2016-07-02T00:00:00.000Z": 0.89699,
        "2016-07-03T00:00:00.000Z": 0.89699,
        "2016-07-04T00:00:00.000Z": 0.897827,
        "2016-07-05T00:00:00.000Z": 0.898707,
        "2016-07-06T00:00:00.000Z": 0.903489,
        "2016-07-07T00:00:00.000Z": 0.902389,
        "2016-07-08T00:00:00.000Z": 0.903849,
        "2016-07-09T00:00:00.000Z": 0.904593,
        "2016-07-10T00:00:00.000Z": 0.904593,
        "2016-07-11T00:00:00.000Z": 0.905133,
        "2016-07-12T00:00:00.000Z": 0.90247,
        "2016-07-13T00:00:00.000Z": 0.902739,
        "2016-07-14T00:00:00.000Z": 0.899944,
        "2016-07-15T00:00:00.000Z": 0.900341,
        "2016-07-16T00:00:00.000Z": 0.905772,
        "2016-07-17T00:00:00.000Z": 0.905772,
        "2016-07-18T00:00:00.000Z": 0.903979,
        "2016-07-19T00:00:00.000Z": 0.904945,
        "2016-07-20T00:00:00.000Z": 0.908306,
        "2016-07-21T00:00:00.000Z": 0.907408,
        "2016-07-22T00:00:00.000Z": 0.908232,
        "2016-07-23T00:00:00.000Z": 0.910631,
        "2016-07-24T00:00:00.000Z": 0.910631,
        "2016-07-25T00:00:00.000Z": 0.910896,
        "2016-07-26T00:00:00.000Z": 0.90943,
        "2016-07-27T00:00:00.000Z": 0.909124,
        "2016-07-28T00:00:00.000Z": 0.902454,
        "2016-07-29T00:00:00.000Z": 0.899434,
        "2016-07-30T00:00:00.000Z": 0.894486,
        "2016-07-31T00:00:00.000Z": 0.894486
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

The conversion table is applied with the following rules:

1. The table is expected to contain key/value pairs where the key is an ISO8601 timestamp,
   and the value is a currency conversion rate.
2. The `__time` column for the row (Druid's builtin timestamp column) is used for evaluating which
   conversion rate to use.
3. Rows with timestamps before the earliest provided conversion time will use the rate 1.0.
4. All other rows use the rate corresponding to the latest conversion table timestamp which is equal
   to or less than the row's timestamp. (i.e. the most recent conversion as of the timestamp in that row)


## IP Address Columns

IPv4 and IPv6 addresses can be ingested into specialized column type that stores IP address in their native 128-bit binary format.

```json
{
   "type": "ipAddress",
   "name": "someColumnName"
}
```

_WIP_
